Statistics-4

Ans:1 (A)

Ans:2 (A)

Ans:3 (B)

Ans:4 (D)

Ans:5 (C)

Ans:6 (B)

Ans:7 (B)

Ans:8 (A)

Ans:9 (C)

Ans:10 
        The normal distribution is the most important probability distribution in statistics because it fits many natural phenomena. 
        For example, heights, blood pressure, measurement error, and IQ scores follow the normal distribution. 
        It is also known as the Gaussian distribution and the bell curve.

        The normal distribution is a probability function that describes how the values of a variable are distributed. 
        It is a symmetric distribution where most of the observations cluster around the central peak and the probabilities for values further away 
        from the mean taper off equally in both directions. Extreme values in both tails of the distribution are similarly unlikely.
        
Ans:11
        First, determine the pattern of your missing data. There are three types of missing data:

     Missing Completely at Random:  There is no pattern in the missing data on any variables. This is the best you can hope for.
     Missing at Random: There is a pattern in the missing data but not on your primary dependent variables such as likelihood to recommend 
     or SUS Scores.
     Missing Not at Random: There is a pattern in the missing data that affect your primary dependent variables. 
     For example, lower-income participants are less likely to respond and thus affect your conclusions about income and likelihood to recommend. 
     Missing not at random is your worst-case scenario. Proceed with caution.
     
      Here are seven things you can do about that missing data.
      1.Listwise Deletion
      2.Recover the Values
      3.Educated Guessing
      4.Average Imputation
      5.Common-Point Imputation
      6.Regression Substitution
      7.Multiple Imputation
      
Ans:12
      A/B testing (also known as split testing) is a process of showing two variants of the same web page to different segments of 
      website visitors at the same time and comparing which variant drives more conversions.
      A/B testing offers a very systematic way of finding out what works and what doesn’t work in any given marketing campaign. 
      Most marketing efforts are geared toward driving more traffic. But, as traffic acquisition becomes more difficult and expensive, 
      it becomes paramount to offer the best experience to your users who come to your website. This will help them achieve their goals and
      allow them to convert in the fastest and most efficient manner possible. A/B testing in marketing allows you to make the most out of 
      your existing traffic.


Ans:13
      Bad practice in general
      If just estimating means: mean imputation preserves the mean of the observed data.
      Leads to an underestimate of the standard deviation.
      Distorts relationships between variables by “pulling” estimates of the correlation toward zero.
      
Ans:14
       In statistics, linear regression is a linear approach to modeling the relationship between a scalar response and one or more explanatory
       variables. The case of one explanatory variable is called simple linear regression. For more than one explanatory variable, 
       the process is called multiple linear regression.
      Linear regression is a basic and commonly used type of predictive analysis.  The overall idea of regression is to examine two things: 
      (1) does a set of predictor variables do a good job in predicting an outcome (dependent) variable?  
      (2) Which variables in particular are significant predictors of the outcome variable, and in what way do they–indicated by 
      the magnitude and sign of the beta estimates–impact the outcome variable?  
      These regression estimates are used to explain the relationship between one dependent variable and one or more independent variables. 

Ans:15
      The two main branches of statistics are descriptive statistics and inferential statistics. 
      Both of these are employed in scientific analysis of data and both are equally important for the student of statistics.
      
      Descriptive Statistics:
      Descriptive statistics deals with the presentation and collection of data. This is usually the first part of a statistical analysis. 
      It is usually not as simple as it sounds, and the statistician needs to be aware of designing experiments, choosing the right focus group and
      avoid biases that are so easy to creep into the experiment.
      
      Inferential Statistics:
      Inferential statistics, as the name suggests, involves drawing the right conclusions from the statistical analysis that has been performed 
      using descriptive statistics. In the end, it is the inferences that make studies important and this aspect is dealt with in inferential statistics.
